All writer's concept check number six for RC circuits are you saying the same circuit as before.
So which is close that time equals zero zip.
Now we want to know what is the voltage now across the capacitor see long after the switch is closed
so after a long time what is going to be the potential difference here across across those plates.
OK so in order to solve this well you have to be a little bit careful you can't just say six volts here.
If you say six volts in that case that's really not what's going to happen because this additional resistor
up here is the reason why you're not going to get six volts.
If you think about what happens now well again you're going to charge it up and eventually the charger
is not going to change.
Which means that you're not going to have any more current flow in this outer branch.
If the current is going to be zero and this outer branch again you imagine use an injunction rule it
says then whatever current flows into this junction is basically going to be the same current flowing
down here because eventually this here becomes saturated.
So let's calculate what this current ice is here through this left circuit member in the long time limit
what you do is you basically replace this with a resistance that is very very big.
So no more current is going to flow out here.
So that means we simply have two resistors here that are in series with each other.
So the equivalent resistance is basically just three ohm and a current I was going to be six divided
by three going to be two amps.
So even in a long time limit you have to be amps flowing here.
So what does that mean.
Now we use the fact that we have three branches right.
We have the branch abey.
We have the branch C.B and we have the branch with the capacitor in it.
We know that for any circuit with parallel branches that the voltage across has to be the same.
So actually you can either you can use any branch you want here.
Right.
Let's use this middle branch since we know how much current flows through it.
If you use the middle one it's right it out the potential difference between Point B and point C is
basically equal to the voltage drop across the two ohm resistor.
The voltage drop across the two Omers This is the value of the resistance multiplied by the current.
In this case two times two which gives me four volts.
I would have also gotten four volts if I look at the potential going from point A to Point B.
Right then must also equal four because you get plus four here you get minus four when you get a drop
across this resistor and you go back there you get zero right so let's ride that one out.
If you start at point eight you're at some potential vitæ.
The next thing you encounter is that six mile battery.
The next thing I encounter is a 1 ohm resistor.
So there is a voltage drop across that resistor given by one multiplied by the current flowing through
it which is two and that there must be equal to the potential at point B.
At the end you get.
VB mine is V.A also equals the four volts same as the previous one that we just did.
So every single branch in this circuit including the capacitor now must be equal to four volts in a
long time limit.
So always five is the best choice for that.